                   How to Make Bagels 

Here are all the steps laid out, plain and simple, so you can see how simple the process truly is. For the
printable recipe with all of the measurements, you can find it lower down on the page.

                   Making the Bagel Dough

Using an electric mixer fitted with a dough hook, mix all the dry ingredients together: flour, yeast,
sugar, and salt on medium/low speed.
Slowly add the warm water until your dough to form a smooth ball and clean the bottom of the bowl.
Knead the dough on medium/low speed for roughly 10 minutes. While the machine is running try working in 
as much of the extra 3/4 cup of flour as possible to form a firm but stiff dough. Add a few drops of 
water if needed to incorporate more flour. 
Grease a large bowl with oil and place your dough in it to coat. Cover the bowl tightly with cling wrap 
and a dishtowel. Allow the dough to double in size, proofing for roughly 1 hour at room temperature.
Once doubled, knock out the air from the dough and divide the dough into 8 pieces (roughly 4oz/115g each).

                    Shaping the Bagels

Take a dough ball, and press it gently against the countertop moving your hand and the ball in a circular
motion pulling the dough into itself while reducing the pressure on top of the dough slightly until 
a perfect dough ball forms. Repeat with the rest of the dough.
Gently press your finger into the center of each dough ball to form a ring. Stretch the ring to about
1/2 the diameter of the bagel ( around 1 1/2 inches) and place on a lined cookie sheet. Repeat the same 
step with the remaining dough.
Straight away, repeat the process of shaping the bagels as they might have sprung back into shape. 
After shaping the dough rounds and placing them on the lined cookie sheet, cover with cling wrap and a 
towel and allow to proof for 20 minutes at room temperature.

                    Cooking the Bagels

Preheat the oven to 425ºF ( 210ºC). Also, bring a large pot of water to a boil.
Carefully place the proofed bagels into the boiling water. Don’t overcrowd your pot. You can boil in
batches. Once the bagels are in, it shouldn’t take too long for them to float to the top. Let them boil
there for 2 minutes, and then flip them over to boil for another 2 minutes. Boiling is what gives NYC 
bagels their unique chew.
Transfer the boiled bagels back onto your lined cookie sheet. Egg wash one by one and top with the 
ingredients listed above or add your
own flavor.
Bake for about 20 minutes or until golden brown. 